---
layout: post
title: "March2023-GPT4 notes"
date: 2023-03-15 23:59:59 -0000
categories: gpt4 llm chatgpt gpt3 ai-ml
author: "Sagun Garg"
tags: gpt4 llm chatgpt gpt3 ai-ml
---

GPT-4 is capable of doing amazing things (confirmed):

• Rough sketch to website
• Build games without writing a single line of code
• Write songs and compose music
• Expose Blockchain vulnerabilities
• Generate video scripts
• Drug discovery
• Generate entire brand design


IMO GPT-4 is a bigger leap than GPT-3 was.
- GPT-3 advanced AI from task-specific models to a single prompted model that is task-general
- GPT-4 is human-level on many hard tasks, and will signal a *societal* revolution where AI reaches every industry, starting with technology


Before GPT-3, we fine-tuned a task-specific neural network (e.g., BERT) for each task that we wanted to solve.
With GPT-3, there was a paradigm shift to using a single large language model for any task via few-shot prompting.

Before GPT-4, AI was OK at surface-level statistical learning, but not usable for many tasks (e.g., reasoning).
With GPT-4, AI reaches human-level on many intellectual tasks—a qualitative shift in the “feel” of using the technology that will unlock a new world of use cases.

Since GPT 3.5 was delivered as an intermediate step, it may seem like GPT-3 to 4 was not as big, but IMO if you consider the trajectory of developments from 2020 until now, GPT-4 is quite a lot different. Super excited for the future of AI!

GPT-4 is way better at programming than given credit for.HumanEval is a benchmark of python programming problems. With some prompt engineering, GPT-4 scores ~85%, destroying Codex's 29% from just 2 years ago and performing much better than OpenAI's publicized accuracy - https://twitter.com/amanrsanger/status/1635751764577361921

So what is next
- Get early access to GPT-4
https://github.com/openai/evals/blob/main/README.md#Setup
- Do you realize that GPT-5 will come before the end of the year 2023? People won't even have time to properly integrate GPT-4 into their work or lives!